the miracle claims got to me I believed
in every single one of them so I went
from being vegan to being high carb low
fat vegan and that's where things went a
little bit Rocky I think it's fair to
say many of the people who told this
young woman lies as she said people made
impossible claims of health weight loss
vitality diet many of the people lying
to her nationally believed that when
they were telling these lies they were
liberating her from a different set of
lies a worse set of lies
perhaps lies they imagined were invented
by the meat industry perhaps lies the
imaginal created by a conspiracy of
medical doctors and scientists but I've
heard it all in Venus and people who
really want to believe there's a secret
conspiracy for disinformation to make
people sick instead of during them and
so on but they felt that their lie was a
secret lie and beneficial for the people
being lied to and there was a moral
mission for the people doing the lying
the alternative isn't easy but it's not
easy to do consistently the alternative
is rigorous honesty this is a sense in
which we keep growing in our 20s or 30s
or 40s learning to be rigorously honest
with yourself and others it's not human
nature it's not something you learn as a
child it's not something anyone else
ever taught you you teach it to yourself
about us yen hey guys I think it's fair
to say in the year 2019 there's a
difference between converting to
veganism and converting to YouTube the
ISM the reality of what YouTube Vedas
and means is different in 2018 that was
in 2016 or 2014 but it's a changing and
quite potent and powerful voice for
veganism a platform for veganism and
obviously different activists contend
with one another to be the leading voice
for veganism on YouTube at one time it
was Gary Yourofsky at one time it was
freely etc etc and it's very obvious
from this young woman's narrative that
the form of veganism she converted to
the commitment she made was not to
ecological veganism or ethical veganism
he was very specifically to YouTube
mechanism into a certain vision of her
own physical body beauty even mentality
attitude even in the sense the cell
culture presented to her by YouTube that
was what she'd want to buy into and that
ultimately is what she's been
disillusioned with and I think she's
quite self-aware it self critical in how
she's constructed this narrative this
analysis of how she converted to
veganism and how she became
disillusioned and deccan for it
afterwards and after I'll have a few
more comments after right I played these
clips but let me just say some of you
watching my channel can relate to this
and some of you can't when I say it's a
said many times I was involved with
Buddhism for more than 10 years but that
left foot ism fundamentally because I
don't want to be part of our religion
that's based on a lie and I'm not
interested in any movement within
veganism any form of veganism I promote
promotion of veganism that's built on
the eyes and I've known many people
within Buddhism
and many people within veganism who
offer different justifications for the
lies that are offered who claim that
lies will entice people to join will
positively motivate people to join that
even if these things aren't true or have
true or misleading but not entirely
false that they'll be good for the
movement good for the faith if you like
in examples like this I show but I
believe examples like this show just how
utterly wrong that mentality is when you
have people convert to a religion on the
basis of the lie for example the lie
that Buddhism is completely scientific
for example the lie that meditation will
improve your sex life there are myriad
lies there are also lies than Buddhism
about personal beauty and weight loss
luckily the whole gamut physical
spiritual and otherwise then when they
realize they've been lied to
when they realize they made this
commitment with false assumptions or a
false premise what happens then
inevitably they have a sense of
resentment I mean even contempt for
everything they had faith in before and
I think in a profound sense this young
woman what she's explaining to you is
that because she bought into veganism to
a set of lies even though she's still to
this day sees the good in veganism in a
very real sense veganism has been
discredited it felt so good learning
about it and caring about it and talking
about it that I obviously brought it on
my youtube channel and just there was so
much enthusiasm and excitement over it
and I because of all that I couldn't
imagine myself living a life any other
way and learning all that I had learned
in my head it just it all made sense and
if you've ever watched vegan videos on
YouTube as I quickly did after changing
to
a vegan diet I found the high carb low
fat community and like they're just
they're these like skinny glowing young
beautiful women and men that are just
eating fruit and eating huge amounts of
it and they're losing weight and they're
they're thriving you know their their
skin all of their acne has gone away
they've they've declined in age 20 years
the miracle claims got to me I believed
in every single one of them so I went
from being vegan to being high carb low
fat vegan and that's where things went a
little bit rocky I would say then going
high carb low fat vegan that's where I
did feel a divide where I I was more
strong in this belief system than I was
about my social life about how I
presented myself I didn't care all I
cared as I was following this diet and
my whole train of thought my whole daily
sorry about my phone going off my brain
just I I saluted myself into this one
box of thinking and I cared more about
following his diet than anything else
that diet was so important to me that it
consumed my thoughts like I woke up and
lived every single day just thinking
about the meals that was gonna be eating
and that's the most focus I've ever put
on food in my entire life where I woke
up and I would have these enormous
breakfast lunches and dinners like I was
eating more than I've ever eaten in my
life
and feeling so disgustingly full because
I was eating huge meals that I had never
eaten before and keep in mind that I had
never come from like a past of
restriction or dieting or anything
but a lot of the videos were saying like
okay you might gain weight if you've
come from a pasta restriction because
you need to fix your metabolic damage as
I started to believe that I had come
from a passive subconscious restriction
even though that was like 0% true and
just kept following this diet aimlessly
just being brainwashed into believing
that if I had 23 pizzas for lunch that I
was gonna get skinny and look really
great and suddenly my my shift went from
helping the environment to just blindly
following this list of food rules to
look a certain outcome and it just
wasn't true it just didn't make any
sense for some eggs and there were some
eggs from the neighbors farm and I
remember holding up that egg and looking
at it and just thinking to myself I
think this egg isn't cruel this egg
comes from a chicken with the absolute
best life like this egg is this egg is a
good egg like I would love to be the
chicken that laid this egg I I think
this egg is great and convinced myself
so hard that it wasn't doing a bad thing
when I was about to crack open this egg
and I was like I'm gonna do what I'm
gonna do it and so I put some oil on the
pan guys this is ridiculous if this was
a huge moment for me but I put some oil
on the pan I crack the egg put toast in
a toaster and I had an egg over easy on
a piece of toast and I ate it and I
remember looking at him and I was like
this is amazing I can't be vegan forever
it's one thing to tell a lie it's
another thing to sell a lie and it's
another thing to live a lie and a lot of
what I've seen going on within veganism
animal rights within my lifetime it's a
combination of all three that's a
goddamn shame because the real value of
veganism the real virtue of veganism
doesn't need any lies to support it
this really can stand on the value of
truth alone and you know the shame is I
still feel that way about Buddhism even
the woman excellest
just tonight I was sitting around dinner
table with five or six vegans maybe
seven Twitter circle I forget me people
with her round table vegans and when I
was talking about Buddhism
break you know what the fundamental
tenets of the religion and philosophy
are a same look the situation what is
them it's not the same as the situation
with Islam or Judaism this is a religion
that actually has some something to
offer in the 21st century there's
something positive here but yeah there's
so lot there's so much wrong with it
there's so many problems we have to deal
with there's so many dishonest and
disruptive and destructive many people
live with elements to what goes on in
this religion but sure I can't tell you
there is no value at all to this
philosophy built on telling people
dukkha and Nietzsche and admin life is
suffering all is impermanent there is no
soul that's a philosophy we can still
settle in 2018 whereas I don't think
selling its own merits and when honestly
the philosophy of Islam Judaism
Christianity I don't think anyone would
really be buying if they think about
what happens when you when you sell your
soul of the Catholic Church wrecking out
their mainstream Christianity I don't
think it was really just to have any
place in 21st century where as Buddhism
could have a place in 21st century but
it can't be a place built on lies um and
you know within the Buddhist religion
one of the ways that people justify
telling a lie selling a lie living a lie
is the belief sometimes openly stated
that the lies they're telling are better
or better for the people being lied to
that the lies they would be living
otherwise like for example if you can
convert someone if you if you converted
someone from Islam to Buddhism then you
were in some sense liberating them even
if you are only liberating them from one
set of lies to another set of eyes right
and step by step people who offer these
sorts of justifications for themselves
whether it's a you know a theistic
religion where they believe they're
doing gods or
or veganism it's very easy to become
deeply morally compromised yourself when
you believe you are serving the higher
or moral cause of greater moral cause
even if what you're lying about is diet
and weight loss anyone's been paying
attention what went on Venus last five
years knows exactly what I'm talking
about I think it's fair to say many of
the people who told this young woman
lies as she said people many impossible
claims of health weight loss vitality
diet many of the people lying to her
nationally believed that when they were
telling these lies they were liberating
her from a different set of lies a worse
set of lies perhaps lies they imagined
were invented by the meat industry
perhaps lies they imagined or created by
a conspiracy of medical doctors and
scientists but I've heard it all in
Venus and people who really want to
believe there's a secret conspiracy for
disinformation to make people sick
instead of during them and so on but
they felt that their lie was a secret
lie and beneficial for the people being
lied to and there was a moral mission
for the people doing the lying this is
the sense in which is even she reflects
in that video the innocent can sometimes
come close to being a religion hey I
said this earlier tonight in talking a
decaf veganism is a cult if you want it
to be and a lot of people and get
involve in ISM before they ever got
involved that was what they were looking
for so that's what they found
but the final tragedy is that
justification when seen in the context
of someone's whole life cycle becomes
all the more farcical because even
though we might say that before she
learned these sacred lies from well
tension but many people have been
dishonest vegans she had one set of eyes
but then when her faith broke down and
veganism when she recognized the extent
to what she can lie to mislead and
manipulated she went on to another set
of lies and it's pathetic in the truest
sense of the word pathetic to hear this
young woman trying to muster up ethical
justifications for eating a chicken egg
right
but obviously the fundamental delusion
here is that she's a good person
she's a compassionate person she's
saving the planet she cares about
ecology that this wasn't just a weight
loss personal Beauty diet cult for her
and cetera et cetera she wants to
believe in her own moral purity she
wants to come up with an ethical system
that will justify that and in her
description of that breaking point
she reached where she decided to
literally break an egg and figuratively
break with veganism you see precisely
her departing from one set of eyes and
starting up a new chapter in her life
that is sadly just based on otherwise
the alternative it's easy but it's not
easy to do consistently the alternative
is rigorous honesty I don't even lie to
people that veganism will cure cancer
because it won't
the statistics show in a meta-analysis
of cited an earlier video if you're
vegan you have about a 50% reduction in
your odds of getting cancer but I'm not
even gonna lie about that and there were
profound and perverse consequences to
line the people saying you're gonna heal
their diseases through your faith at all
doing your ethical and moral system
because that's what it is and yes I've
dealt with on this channel
examples of veganism that are just as
bad as the worst Christian faith healers
promising people you could cure Crohn's
disease promising people you could cure
schizophrenia all kinds of diseases for
which there is you know no cure
the alternative to telling lie and
selling lies living a lie is honesty and
that's easy to do sometimes and it's
hard to do all the time
I think everyone watching this video is
a grown up I don't think anybody - as a
child this is a sense in which we keep
growing you know 20s or 30s or 40s
learning to be rigorously honest with
yourself and others it's not human
nature it's not something you learn as a
child it's not something anyone else
ever taught you you teach it to yourself
take on that challenge whether you do it
now in the next 20 years however much
time you need to take make a commitment
to yourself that you're gonna live a
life that's honest and authentic even
when it's inconvenient for you even when
it challenges the assumptions of others
even when it challenges assumptions of
your own you didn't even know that bonus
Yin